Stewart Hall is an interesting figure. He was a black, Jamaican born British intellectual who was deeply political and critical of the status quo. He was a Marxist. His cultural theories often challenged and subverted common understandings of how meaning is created, and in so doing worked to illuminate how the limitations of traditional concepts of meaning work to reinforces white supremacy, capitalism, and other repressive societal forces. He has worked to expand frameworks within cultural studies to better help us understand issues of race and gender.

In his book, The Work of Representation, he gives us an overview of his ideas about Representation, which build off of the ideas of theorists who've come before him. The challenge in writing such a text is that in order to question or subvert an idea, one must first become aware of the existence of that idea. Many of us have not consciously considered where we think meaning comes from, and so Hall spends some time in his book developing ideas that he will later call into question.

These are complex ideas, and Hall makes an effort to write about them in a way that's accessible, but being an academic himself the text can feel dense, confusing, and impenetrable at times. However, the essential concepts he is getting at are radical, subversive, and well worth consideration. The hope is that through providing a supplemental commentary we can better understand the ideas at the heart of The Work of Representation.


CHAPTER 01

We start this chapter with a simple claim: understanding the concept of representation has an important place in the study of culture, and the process of representation is not as simple as it seems at first glance. These are obviously key concepts for the entire book (it is called 'The Work of Representation' after all), but for the sake of introducing things, we start by giving an overview of a couple schools of thought surrounding what it means to represent something, providing, hopefully, a basic understanding of these ideas. It should be stressed that Hall is mostly catching us up on some key concepts when it comes to cultural studies, and not providing his own ideas at this time. It's also worth stressing that because this is basically an overview of existing understandings of representation, some of these ideas are in conflict with each other. These are different people's ideas about the same thing, and we shouldn't try and make sense of it like these are all part of the same idea because our head would explode.

But before we get into what Stewart Hall says I have an activity of my own. I want you to answer the question, "What does the word representation really mean?" You must have some idea of what a representation is for the word to have any meaning at all, what is your idea of what a representation is? Try to keep this question in mind as you go through the book. Come back to it and see if it becomes clarified, confused, changed.

CHAPTER 01.01 Making meaning, representing things

There really is no easy or reasonable way to start answering the question. The concept of "representation" is so large and encompass so much about our daily life that focusing on any one part of it seems arbitrary and weird. Imagine someone were to ask you to explain why it is people have sex, or what the internet is. You would probably have a hard time finding a point of entry. You could start by explaining the basic mechanics in a literal way (sex is when two or more people get naked and rub their genitals together, the internet is a wire that connects computers to each other), but this would ignore something really fundamental to what those things are, the internal, social, human aspects. What does it mean to have a boyfriend/girlfriend? What is an internet troll? What does it mean to feel sexy, or laugh at a meme? But to explain the internet by showing us a cat meme would also be bizarre, arbitrary, and leave something to be desired.

Hall reconciles this tension by basically starting with two radically different approaches to introducing the topic of representation in quick succession. First, he takes a page out of high-schoolers giving book presentations everywhere by giving us the Oxford English Dictionary definition of "representation." Then he gives us an activity where he essentially asks us to over-analyze the experience of recognizing an object near us. These are such radically different entry points that to have them in such quick succession is jarring to say the least. The first approach is a very academic, analytical way of understanding a word, the second is highly introspective and experiential. Somewhere in-between these two is the meaning of "representation." I would encourage readers to actually take this activity seriously. It's a very different way of thinking that may come off as silly, but it's worthwhile.

We move on to a rather lengthy and confusing passage, the first of many, in which we muse about the experience of thinking about a glass that is in the other room. We talk about war, chairs, "conceptual map" is a term that comes up a lot. I will try and summarize my understanding of this passage.

Imagine you were to set an empty glass on a table before leaving the room. You find me and report "there's an empty glass on that table in that room over there." 

In this exercise, the glass is three three things.

First, it is a literal physical object that is sitting on a table. If you were to die before telling me anything, the glass would still be on the table.

Second, it is a concept in your brain. You have a "conceptual map" of various things. You know what a glass is. Your "conceptual map" is unique to you because your life is unique to you. Your idea of a glass is probably influenced by what glasses you had growing up as a child, or what the glasses looked like in your favorite TV show. In a similar vein, I have a "conceptual map" that includes my own idea of a glass. Because I am coming from a similar culture to yours, or perhaps the same culture, my idea of what a glass is is probably not too dissimilar to yours. If you aren't coming from a musical background, you probably don't have an idea of what a half-diminished chord is, I'm sure you have ideas about things I've never heard of. In order for our exchange about the glass to have any meaning at all, we must both have "shared conceptual maps"

Finally, the glass is part of a shared language. The word "glass" is not equivalent to the concept of a glass. The Spanish might call it a "vaso" but still be thinking of a glass. Words of a language are a kind of stand in for concepts. They are symbols. Other symbols function similarly. A photograph of a glass is not a glass, but we would still relate it to the concept of glass.

Why are we talking about concept maps and symbols? Because it is somewhere in the combining of these three ideas that we get the process of representation. Representation need the literal physical thing, the mental concept, and a symbol to take place.

CHAPTER 01.02 Language and Representation

If I were to show you a picture of a sheep, it would be a representation, but my photo of a sheep does bear visual resemblance to real, three-dimensional sheep. If I showed you a bad drawing of a sheep it would look less like a sheep then the photo, so this form of representation, although somewhat straightforward, is not without complicating factors. We call this iconic signs. This is when a sign recreates the conditions of perceiving the actual thing.

The other version of a sheep is like the word "sheep" which really doesn't look or sound anything like a sheep. We could of called the animals "baaaa" which would have been iconic, but we didn't. These kinds of symbols are "indexical"

CHAPTER 01.03 Sharing the Codes

Okay so we've got some idea of what a representation is, but then it leads to a fairly essential question: how did you learn to associate the word "sheep" with the concept of sheep? This was learned through culture, which is why thinking about representation is so important for studying culture!

A word's meaning is arbitrary and not fixed. Different cultures have different words for the same things, and sometimes within the same culture a word's connotations change. Think about how "gay" once meant happy before meaning homosexual before becoming a bit of an insult before being reclaimed by the gays.

We are offered the infamous example of the Inuit having many words for snow. This example can sometimes play into an othering of Inuit culture. I would personally point out the different words for colors we have in English.

In English we have a word for brown, which is really just dark orange, and we have a word for pink which is possibly just a shade of red. We don't have a different word for light and dark blue despite these being very different colors. Other languages have different boundaries between colors. Is it possible that the language you speak influences your perception of colors?

CHAPTER 01.04 Theories of Representation

Where do meanings come from?

There are three schools of thought on this, each a little more nuanced then the last (this is the part where we have ideas that conflict)

The three theories of representation are as follows:

reflective: the symbol reflects the literal thing.
intentional: the author imposes meaning on the world
constructionist: it's like, society man... the differences between things

We will go through them with a little more specifics.

Reflective: If I showed you a picture of a sheep, there's something that is at it's essence, sheep-like about the photo. The reflective approach to understanding why symbols mean what they mean is to assume that something about those symbols have a underlying relationship to what they represent. 

This approach feels silly, though. Why would different cultures have different words for things if something about the essential quality of that word related to the thing they represented. How does the word s h e e p in a vacuum in anyway relate to the concept of sheep? Silly.

Intentional: this is to say that a word or symbol means something because it has an author who intends it to mean that thing. So the reason the word "sheep" refers to the concept of sheep is because you, the speaker, were thinking of the concept of a sheep when you said the word.

This is a bit more reasonable. Symbols only exist because they have authors with intentions. A bunch of clouds that somewhat resemble a sheep in the sky is not really a symbol. It's also fair to say that if you said the word "sheep" you were probably thinking of a sheep in your brain.

This kind of falls apart because in order for something to work as a symbol it has to also be interpretable. If I use the word "squantum" in conversation with you, it doesn't matter how much I am intending it to mean something, if you don't also know what it means it's not really a symbol.

Constructionist: oh gee oh boy. I think our pal Stewart Hall just might be a structuralist! Structuralism is a whole school of sociology that basically says things have meaning because of how the relate in a structure to other things. It's a huge can of worms to get into, kind of like post-modernism or existentialism. Hall starts using terms like "signify" at this point, which are real structuralist terms to use. The thing that is difficult to understand about structuralism is that it's an all-encompassing way of understanding why anything means anything at all. If we were to take seriously the proposals of the structuralists, it would have implications on the meaning of us taking their proposal seriously.

CHAPTER 01.05 The Language of Traffic Lights

There isn't really a way to get into explaining this that isn't reductive to the point of being wrong, but we have to start somewhere, and Hall starts with the example of a Traffic Light.

A traffic light emits three different colored lights to tell drivers when to stop and when to go. The lights are Red, Yellow, and Green. Green means "Go", Yellow means "the lights about to change" and red means "don't go."

The question is, why do these colors mean what they mean? Is there something about the color green that just shouts "go!" all the time?

The structuralists would argue that the core reason red means stop and green means go is because they are part of a larger system or structure, namely the traffic light.

If you were driving along the road and passed a yellow light that never changed colors or went off or did anything, it wouldn't mean anything to you as a driver.

The light only becomes a symbol when it's meaning is created through it's place in a larger system. In this way a symbol on its own is meaningless, it is only when it is related to a larger system with other sybols that it takes on any meaning at all.
