The work of representation – chapter 5
Where is "the subject"?

When we first started this nonsense we suggested that meaning was created by the person who is speaking. But, as we've gone on we've increasingly started to dismantle this idea, instead arguing that meaning is created through some ever-changing and unknowable complex web of interconnected relationships (fun). However, what this does is completely eradicate the speaker and listener. If meaning is created through society or something then the person saying the statements is totally irrelevant. This is self-evidently untrue, and kind of takes away a decant amount of power from the speaker in the meaning-creation process.

Later in this life as a theoretical thinker Foucault started to think more about the person speaking or creating the meaning. This is what is meant when Stuart Hall (and Foucault) refer to the "subject."

Foucault rejected this more traditional version of the "subject," dismissing the idea that we understand ourselves and speak from a place of self consciousness. Instead he arguing that the subject is created by the discourse. We cannot understand who is speaking unless we have a larger understanding of how they related to their environment, culture, whatever, and those things are understood through discourse.

Like if I was the manager of McDonalds and you were a complaining customer and you said "let me speak to your manager" and I said "I am the manager" it would be a situation where different power dynamics are at play, and through my speaking certain power dynamics are revealed. However, in order for me to be the manger of McDonalds we have to have an idea of what a manager is and what a McDonalds is and if I were to travel to 10 BC I would no longer be the manager of a McDonalds, even if I kept my uniform and manager badge thing because 10 BC didn't have managers or McDonalds.

In this way the "subject" is created through the "episteme" of the time and the "discourse" and in a way we are created through our time and place.

There's kind of two things that have to happen for me to be the manager of a McDonalds. First, we have to have some kind of idea of what a McDonalds is and what a manager is. Different discourses create different roles. For example "madman," "hysterical woman," "homosexual," "individualized criminal." Foucault sees these things similarly to "manager" because they are preexisting roles for people to occupy that are created by the discourse. Second, I need to be at a McDonalds. If we're at a house party and I announce "I'm the manager of McDonalds" this would be only a half-truth because even if everyone at that house party was part of the same discourse and knew exactly what I meant when I said that because they were familiar with the role I was referring to, I'm not exactly a manager of a McDonalds unless I have a McDonalds to manage.

In this sense Foucault's idea of "subject-positions" is created. There is a position (place/location) for subjects (social roles/identities) to be created or exist. 

If we want to be certain things in this world, we have to "subject" ourselves to the socity that creates to roles for us to occupy. If I wanted to become a renowned artist, I kind of have to go into the art world and make a name for myself. I kind of have to position myself within a society and its discourse. 

There's this kind of depressing part of this, which is Foucault argues that to make any sense of ourselves we have to "subject" ourselves to society's rules, but often times society has really unkind ideas about what it means to be those things. If you were black and gay and a women, just identifying with those roles (roles that are created by a society) is subjecting yourself to the attitudes and understandings that are created by that society, which are largely unkind in a homophobic, racist, and sexist society. But you couldn't identify as any of those things if it were for existing within a society that has created those roles.

There's a mildly victim-blamey element to what Foucault is on about here. He is kind of arguing that for anyone to meaningfully exist within a society, they must be complicit with the attitudes of that society. 

CHAPTER 05.01 Looking at that painting everyone is obsessed with

Oh goodness. So there's this painting, Las Meninas, that a lot of scholarlly people are obsessed with. The reason being is Velasquez, the painter of the painting, included himself painting in the painting, and a mirror on the back wall that presumably shows us from whose perspective the painting is painted from, which reflect the King and Queen (he was a royal painter for the family). Often we think of thses kinds of paintings as existing like photographs, where an artist sets to recreate what it is they see in front of them accurately. But by including himself in the painting this can no longer be an honest representation of the world.

Please do ACTIVITY 9 while Stuart Hall tries to guide us through Foucault's interpretation of this image.

CHAPTER 05.02 understanding this painting apparently takes an entire thesis project. 

We go through a bullet point style walk through of Foucault's interpretation of Las Meninas with regards to how the subject is created. Presumably this is simplifying the arguments but each bullet point is at least a paragraph long and the whole thing gets unwieldy. Hopefully we can simplify, but by doing so we will be not communicating the arguments in their entirety. 

1. The painting creates a kind of Knowledge that is important to it's interpretation. 

2. This is not a literal representation of the real world (because the artist is in it)

3. There are different ways of interpreting or reading the painting, which is very much part of it

4. In a way there are two "subjects" the princess in the center and the King and Queen, who are not represented literally but through their reflection in the mirror. In a lot of ways this creates a kind of oscillation between two subjects.

5. A lot of people are looking at us in the painting, and we become the King and Queen in that moment because that's who is standing where we are standing. As the King and Queen we are looking at the princess, and in so doing we are sort of active participants in the gazing, something that is important to understanding this painting and its subject.

6. The painting puts us in it, and creates a "subject-positions" by doing so. By making us subjects in the painting, the painting includes us in it's discourse. This makes the meaning of the painting incomplete without the spectator (viewer) because they bring their ideas of how they occupy the role they are put in to its interpretation.

7. There's different places that representation/interpretation is occurring. We are doing an interpretation when we look at the painting. Velasquez exists both because he is the painter, but also is in the painting. The King and Queen are represented through the mirror.

8. We become the King and Queen of Spain because we are positioned in their place.
