definitions

Some people speculate that people's ability to conceptualize the world is limited by the language they speak. A person who doesn't have a word for a concept doesn't know that concept. I'm not sure I agree with this. There are things that I am quite sure I experience despite English's limited ability to articulate these experiences. I do know that people often come up with words or phrases to describe things. Marx's commodity fetish, Freud's Oedipus complex, Benjamin's aura, these are all very specific concepts for which a new phrase/definition is useful in understanding the author's ideas. I have noticed that over time I have developed my own personal definitions. I will write them here.



Ableism – A compulsive need for everyone to be okay. A denial of other people's inability to accommodate themselves to the status quo. People who are not okay are lying and/or morally falures.

Misogyny – A hatred and disgust towards women and womanly qualities. Misogyny operates in a more genderless and less institutional way than sexism and patriarchy. A women who is disgusted by perceived femininity in a man is participating in misogyny just as much as a man who is disgusted by a women. Hypothetically one could believe fully that men and women are equal in their ability to be and do things, and still be disgusted by displays of emotion. This would still be misogynistic. Someone who dislikes their own womanly qualities is misogynistic even if it is not externally directed.

Patriarchy – A way of conceptualizing and constructing power that is hierarchical, top-down, and promotes single, male visionaries. Any systematic disfranchisement of power holders that are not single, male visionaries is patriarchal. For example, the story of Walt Disney is often told as a single male visionary. However, his brother Roy was equally important to the founding and success of the Walt Disney cooperation. The erasure of Roy's legacy is an act of patriarchy. Progressive people often wish to see more diversity within power holders. More black female CEOs. This is antipatriarchal in that it promotes non-male people into positions of power, however the inability to conceptualize power in a way that isn't hierarchical, top-down, and promotes single, visionaries is still patriarchal.

Performative – related to virtue signaling, but less pejorative. Something is performative if the person doing something is primarily interested in what their action signifies, not the experience of the action. For example, if someone dislikes the taste of coffee, but drinks it anyway because they associate coffee with being hardworking and wish to be hardworking, then drinking coffee for that person is performative. One doesn't have to dislike the act for it to be performative, one just has to be primarily interested in the signification of the action. A performative action doesn't need an audience outside of the actor.

Racism – The belief that white and nonwhite people posses innate differences. The belief that white people are better.

Sexism – The belief that men and women posses innate differences. The belief that men are better.

White supremacy – I'm not convinced this is the best language to be using because there is such a strong connotation with hate groups. The belief that white people, and more importantly white culture, is superior. A hatred and disgust towards nonwhite qualities and modes of engagement. Similar to misogyny, a brown person who dismisses a white person's ideas because they are not using language that sounds academic enough is participating in white supremacy. 
