“GOD IS A WOMAN”

We often conceive of God in a patriarchal manor. The Christians refer to Him as “Father” and use male language when speaking about God. We imagine that man was created in the image of God, and there is an implication, explicit or not, that God aligns more with our conceptions of masculinity then with those of femininity. 

We imagine God to be all powerful, in control and in charge. He is perfect, orderly, singular, consistent, rational. These are all very manly ideals.

To live a life close to God, therefore, is to become more manly. It is to gain a kind of self-control over your feelings and desires, to take up a scholarly interest in the Bible, to evangelize (in quite a patriarchal manner) others. 

Within this womanhood is defined by its separation from man, and therefore its separation from God. A woman might be thought of as irrational, which is the negation of rationality. A woman is weak, which is the negation of powerful. A woman is innocent, which is the negation of knowledgeable.

I have always taken issue with this image of womanhood and God. In the past I have imagined God as genderless; as existing before and without gender. I imagined Adam being as sexless as God, and only in the creation of Eve do the genders distinguish themselves. God isn’t found in the image of man or woman, but in the unity and synthesis of the two.

This felt like a kinder view, as it doesn’t imply any sex is inherently more or less Godly, it gives both men and women unique insight into Godly knowledge, and it makes all people out to be equally children of God, which feels to be a self-evident truth.

However, recently I have noticed a change in my beliefs about God. I have started to view God as womanly. There are two things that have motivating this change in thinking.

First, what is God, and where does She exist? God is the creator of all thing, God is the origin of life and consciousness, God is what guides our thinking and binds humanity together. We can observe the places where God exists, and ask ourself what qualities these things have. 

God is the creator of everything. We can see that everything is not very orderly. Everything is not perfect, and everything is not controlled. If we accept the patriarchal framework of God that says He is orderly and perfect, then the universe, which He created, is not very much in His image. The Christians would say that the cause of the disorder here on earth is our distance from God, that things are imperfect because mankind has turned away from Him. I don’t think this makes very much sense. It implies that God is not the true creator of all things because the disorder is created by people. To look at everything that God created and imagine that instead of it being in God’s image it’s a denial of God, and then to imagine a God that is unattainable, unknowable, perfect, impossible, and for which there is no evidence for is a denial of what exists. If God is the creator of everything then it’s reasonable to assume that we can understand God’s qualities through observing what exists, not denying it.

God is the origin of life. To me there is something tremendously womanly about giving birth. As far as I know, everyone on earth exists as the result of pregnancy. The quality of being life giving, something very godly, is also to me very womanly. 

God is what guides our thinking and binds humanity together. I don’t believe that people are guided first and foremost by rationality. People who are tend to be unhappy, and in denial. We are guided by our feelings and intuitions. It is love and compassion that binds people together. It is emotions that make us human. Computers are logical. 

By looking at what is, and trying to imagine an image of God from this, I have arrived at something very womanly. God is emotional, intuitive, social, inconsistent, fluctuating. Not all-knowing but constantly learning. Messy and earthy. Compassionate.

This gets me to the second thing that has motivated my change in thinking. In the past, I would have been reluctant to accept a version of God that views Her as a womanly presence because I am not a woman. I don’t want to accept an image of God that sees me as less Godly then my peers. I don’t want to feel estranged from God, or as if my existence is less Godly.

But I don’t think I’m less womanly then a woman.

Recently I have been starting to understand manhood as a performance, and one that largely is defined by its opposition to femininity. There isn’t really a positive image of what a man is, rather manhood is just the rejection of femininity.

A man must NOT show fear. A man must NOT form intimate friendships. A man must NOT care about how he looks. A man must NOT be too invested in anything.

There are plenty of positive things that a man can do, such as study science and make contributions to the field of engineering. But if a man fails to show an interest in studying science, his manhood isn’t called into question. Being a scientist isn’t manly, it’s just something men are permitted to do.

However, if a man cries at a movie, his manhood is called into question. In this way masculinity is largely defined by the negation of femininity. 

The only positive things manhood is defined by has to do with exercising control over other people. Being in charge of a business or sexually dominate. Having power over someone else negates some part of their humanity, so these “positive” qualities are still some form of negation to me, just outward instead of inward. 

To me, God shouldn't be understood through negative qualities. She is not the denial of anything. God is emotional and feeling. Patriarchal thinking would have you believe that feelings are the denial of logic, but this isn’t true. Feelings are deeply logical. God is life-giving. God is creative and constructive. God is changing. God is messy. These are all positive qualities. They are things we can aspire towards, not just against. 

These are essentially human qualities. If we were all honest with ourselves we would all be womanly. Womanhood in the positive sense, is the embrace of our own humanity.

When I am with people who allow me to stop performing masculinity I become very womanly indeed. And I think all people are like this. 

I can accept a womanly image of God because I can accept a womanly image of myself.
