I Don't Want to be Political

I'm a fighter. An advocate. A force for good in the world. I think deeply about who I am and how I can promote positive change. I expect those around me to be caring and kind and when they aren't I call them out. I am loud and brave and stubborn, and I speak up for those who are wronged in my community, especially when it's scary.

"You are arrogant, egotistical, disrespectful, an asshole," the people above me say. "How dare you?" they demand.

"You do not have the right to speak to me that way" I look them in the eye. My heart is fearful but my words are brave. "You are shaming me, publicly, for speaking uncomfortable truths, and that is not okay. When you shut me down you are shutting everyone down. You are shutting the door on the uncomfortable conversations that need to happen. You are making it so no one will ever say anything unpleasant, but the truth is unpleasant, and people are getting hurt and people are unsafe, and you may think I am an asshole and you may think I am disrespectful, but when I let unpleasant things go unsaid because your fragile ears cannot hear the truth that's what true disrespect looks like. Genuine disrespect is the belief that you are so immature, fearful, pathetic, that I have to lie to your face and tell you everything is fine when your own two eyes could tell you otherwise."

And there is a moment of silence.

And then we move on. Because there is more to get done today, and we can talk about this one on one sometime where the powers-that-be can apologize without the cameras rolling.

I am a political actor. A leader. Someone to aspire to. Someone worthy of respect.

Peers come to me. They tell me I am brave. They tell me they are grateful. They congratulate me on saying what others were thinking but didn't dare say. They hope I didn't get eaten alive in that closed-door meeting without the cameras rolling.

I talk to my friends about my political fights. They are political too. They are impressed that I'm doing such a good job of fighting. They tell me I'm aware of my privilege and using it for good. I feel as though I have earned a "good boy white man" sticker I can wear on my forehead with pride.

And sometimes, when the fight has been won, and the march of progress moves one, laboring step forward, the people in charge tell me that they need people like me to speak up when things are bad. And they give me that fatherly respect that kind of implies I earned it through overpowering them and winning in a fight. And I nod graciously at their recognition of my superior penis size.

I am exhausted.

It's great, being a political fighter. It makes you feel powerful, when the fights are won. It makes you feel important. It makes you feel good about yourself. It makes you feel respected. I am glad that I can be a force for positive change in this world that is so sorely needing it.

But I'm exhausted. And I'm exhausting to be around. And I resent being shoved into this role because the truth is, I don't want to be political. I don't want to make people uncomfortable by calling them out all the time. I don't want the responsibility of being this big leader and role model, mr. political calling potato chips white supremacist. I'm so tired of being the bigger person. Of being patient and forgiving to those around me who are blundering their way towards self-awareness. Of apologizing first, even though I'm the student and they're the teacher. I'm so tired of people asking me to put a pin in difficult conversations because it's overwhelming them. I'm so tried of having difficult conversations in the first place.

I don't want to be political.

What I want is permission to cry now and then. I want to be sensitive. I want to be quiet. I want people to know that I love them. I want to be someone that people feel safe with. I want to be myself, and I want to be left alone, but for some reason the person that I am is political. For some reason me being open and honest and caring and thoughtful is political. And so I've been forced into this choice: either I close myself off to the things that make me me, or I become political.

And so I fight and I'm loud and I'm stubborn, because it means that sometimes I get to be gentle and quiet and vulnerable.  I'm angry and opinionated because sometimes I get to be genuinely joyful and curious. I am strong of mind so that I can be strong of heart. I fight because it's the only way I am ever granted permission to be myself.

And I know what people are getting at when they tell me I'm brave and strong and doing good in this world and that they are proud of me. I am all those things, and they're admirable things to be. But sometimes it just makes me so sad because I wish it didn't take bravery and strength to be myself. I wish I could just exist without it meaning anything to anyone at all. And when people congratulate me on doing good in the world it just serves as this reminder that I cannot exist without it making me some political activist. Deep down I know that I would never be someone who fights for change in the way I do if I felt like I had a choice. But I was never given that choice, and that's something I resent.
