IN DEFENSE OF CHRISTIANITY

I am aware that the history or Christianity is the history of colonialism. That Christianity is inseparable from white supremacy. That is has been used as a justification for genocide and slavery. That to this day it is used to oppress and marginalize people. It is a tool of control and oppression. To deny this would be to deny basic facts.

However, I don’t think this means we should reject all Christian teachings and theology. I think these things have merit and here’s why:

I believe that humans posses a basic capacity for spirituality, and that the human life is more fulfilled with a spiritual practice. For as long as there has been people there has been religion, and having a spiritual practice in my own life is meaningful and enriching to me.

In this way there are a lot of parallels between religion and music. Music has always been a part of humanity, and I think people’s lives are more fulfilled if they have a musical practice. Is music logical? No. Is there a right or wrong way to do it? No. Is it something we should cast off as antiquated and primitive? No.

In music there is a western classical tradition, and with it comes a whole host of musical theory and practices. Western classical music theory has a long history of racism and white supremacy. Many people who contributed to music theory were doing so with the aim of painting the music white Europeans were doing as superior to other people and other races. It was used as and made to justify denigrating other people’s artistic practices. In turn, a conception of art that sees the work of nonwhite people as inferior was used to justify genocide. We should be deeply skeptical of what Western Classical music theory holds up as the musical ideal.

However, at the end of the day, music is real, and however problematic the history of a musical theory practice is, some part of that theory refers to something tangible and experienceable. The Western Classical Music theory tradition might offer us a framework of understanding music, such as “tonality” or a “tonal center”. We don’t need to accept this theory at face value, we can (and should) test it. We should listen to music and see if we can hear the “tonal center”. If we can, we can integrate that theory into our own musical practice. There are some theories the Western Classical tradition offer that I don’t hear or believe in. There are some things I think other music theory practices explain better.

But on the whole, learning Western Classical theory is hardly a waste of time because music is real and testable and no matter how racist the people coming up with that music theory were, they were also referring to something I can also hear and make judgments about, and sometimes they offer ideas and theories that I agree with and never would have figured out on my own. I am better at music having studied it.

I think spiritualty is real too. If someone makes a claim about God, I don’t have to accept it. I can try and experience God in that way, and if my experience verifies that claim I can adopt it in my own spiritual practice, and if not I can disregard it.

Christianity is the dominate religion. Probably for worse. But what that means is that there is a large, long, and diverse body of people investigating questions of spirituality using a Christian framework. We can, and should, disregard the aspects of Christianity that are hateful and untrue. But I think it’s a mistake to imagine that all of that manpower is being dedicated to learning about something that doesn’t exist. Is it logical? No. Is there a right or wrong way to do it? No. Is it something we should cast off as antiquated and primitive? No.

The problem for me with both music and religion is when people believe that other people’s practices are illegitimate. If your music theory considers harmony to be a basic requirement of music, that gives you absolutely no right to look at music other people are making which lacks harmony and say it’s not music. There’s so much music in the world that I listen to and feel absolutely nothing about, but it’s stupid and arrogant to think that the people making that music also feel nothing, and that they’re just confused or naive.

The same is true of religion. It only becomes a problem when you believe that other people’s religious practices are illegitimate. I know most religious people think their god is the only true God. That’s stupid and arrogant.

I grew up in the west, more exposed to the western classical music tradition. The music I write ends up resembling other western music. I grew up in a predominately Christian nation. My spiritual practices end up resembling Christian ones. I’m not a Christian, but I can learn and gain a lot from Christianity, and I share many beliefs with the Christians.
